The criminal courts in England and Wales may request the probation service to submit pre-sentence reports which are considered by magistrates and judges before making their sentencing decision. Pre-sentence reports must include an assessment of the risk of re-offending and the risk of harm to the public which the convicted offender presents. This project provides a statistical aid to such risk assessment. The scope of this project is to assess criminology data of an offender group and devise a comprehensive measure to determine re-offending scoreforanyoffenderinfuture.Inthisprojectseveraladvanced statistical tools including but not limited to Neural Network, Logistic Regression, Tree based models, Ensemble Systems have beenappliedtoensurehighpredictionaccuracyofre-conviction score.

On November, 1996 the Home Ofﬁce launched the offender group re-conviction scale (OGRS), a statistical risk score for use by the probation service in England and Wales. The score estimates, as far as is possible from the limited information that it uses, the probability that a convicted offender will be re-convicted at least once within the subsequent period of 2 years. The main aim of the score is to provide background information for probation ofﬁcers in their writing of pre-sentence reports, these reports being designed to inform judges and magistrates when deciding what sentence might be appropriate for each individual offender[1]. The initial version of OGRS was based on a logistic regression analysis of data on a large sample of offenders who have been convicted in the recent past on a subsequent 2-year history of re-convictions traced through ofﬁcial records. It continued to ORGS3 which improved the overall performance of ORGS in terms of prediction time, accuracy based on a fewer simple risk factors[2]. Although, the prediction accuracy was determined by both ORGS and ORGS3 based on static risk factors like age, gender or other criminal history; the accuracy could further be improved if dynamic risk factors or secondary risk factors are analyzed which is introduced in ORGS4[3]. The scope of this project is to obtain high accuracy to predict reconviction of offenders which could provide further insights into primary factors responsible for re-conviction based on the static variables from the data-set. In this project, several statistical tools have been implemented to pre-process the data and further compare multiple models based on their performance on validation set and average cross validation sets. Finally the best model has been identiﬁed with optimal hyper-parameters to be tested on the test data-set. It is likely that this model could provide even better accuracy if secondary risk factors are assessed for prediction.

  
  

